[[!toc levels=2]]

# libravatar.org mail domain

The hosting of the mail domain is kindly provided by the [systemausfall.org](https://systemausfall.org) project.

Only mail forwarding is configured. There are no real mail boxes.


# Existing mail addresses

## Development / services

[[!table  data="""
local part | destination
accounts | dev@
admin | dev@
dev | ofalk
dns | clime, ofalk, sumpfralle, tleguern
mirrors | dev@
security | dev@
social | clime, nipos, ofalk
support | dev@
tls | dev@
webmaster | dev@
"""]]

## Mail hosting

[[!table  data="""
local part | destination
abuse | systemausfall.org
postmaster | systemausfall.org
"""]]

## Personal addresses

[[!table  data="""
local part | owner / destination
clime | clime
falko | ofalk
francois | fmarier
niklas.poslovski | nipos
ofalk | ofalk"""]]


# Personal mail addresses

Members of the project may ask for a personal mail address within the libravatar.org domain.

## How to request a mail address

Please send a request to the [[mailinglist|talk_to_us]].

Mail addresses are only used for forwarding mail to external addresses somewhere else. There are no real mail boxes configured for the domain.

## How to send a mail

If you are the recipient of a libravatar.org mail address, you may also went to send mails from this address.

In this case you need to configure this mail address in you mail client and use your regular mail provider for submitting these mails.

The SPF policy attached to the mail domain is relaxed, in order to allow submission via arbitrary mail exchangers.
